Creating files.
So how do you make a new
file inside a file system?
So there are a number of ways to make
a new file depending on how you want to
do this.
So for instance if you want to do it
programmatically, if you want your code
to do it you'll call Open, or
F-Open to open a file, Open if it's C.
But anyway in Python well
actually we'll do this.
There's a way to do in Python, you can
call a function in Python, Open and Close,
and things like this.
That's not what I'm talking
about right now, though.
Let's say you want to just manually
create a file with some text in it, okay?
For whatever reason you want to
put some text in a file.
Or likewise,
you maybe want to view an existing file.
You want to see what text is
inside in an existing file.
So if you want to do this manually,
not through a program,
a typical way to do this is to
use some type of text editor.
It's like a word processor,
but simpler, okay?
Now you could use
a full-on word processor.
For instance, if you had Microsoft Word
you could run Microsoft Word,
create types and texts, hit save, right?
And that makes a file.
So that's one way to make it.
Right now we're going to talk about
text editors which are much more plain.
So when you use a program like Microsoft
Word or some fancy schmancy text,
word processing type of program, it
doesn't just put the bare data in there.
So say I type the word hello, and
that's in my Word file, and I save it.
If I were to look at the actual
data inside that file, it would
have the characters hello, but it would
also have a lot of other junk in there.
When I say junk, stuff, useful stuff,
formatting, like what's the font,
right, with the font size.
All this other information can
be in there, inside the file.
And if you think about a word processor,
you can put pictures in there,
all kinds of stuff.
And all that has to be stored
inside the docx file or
whatever it is, the output file of
the word processor that you're using.
Now what we're going to use right
now is just a plain old text editor.
So what it's going to put in
the file is just what you type
plus a few invisible characters.
For instance, carriage return, okay,
when you hit Enter on the keyboard.
That carriage return,
it is not visible exactly.
I mean it moves to the next line but
it's not a visible character, but
in the file that character has to actually
be saved as an actual character, okay?
So but these text editors are generally,
they're minimal, okay?
They put in exactly what you type plus
a little bit more bare essential,
usually carriage return information or
tabs.
Things like tabs, right, a tab is
something that is invisible, right?
You can't see the tab, but
you got to put it in the file.
So a text editor just puts the bare
minimum information in there and
it's much simpler.
And it doesn't look like anything,
meaning you can't get something looking
nice just based off a text editor, right?
But that's not the point.
If you're using a text editor,
that shouldn't be the point.
If you need something that looks nice,
you should be using a word
processor of some kind.
Right now I'm just talking
about plain old text editors.
Now there are several text editors
available for Linux for free.
There are a lot of them, okay?
VI, VIM, EMAX, EMAX is my favorite
just because that's what I
learned to use when I first
started learning Unix really.
When I was first working on Unix,
I started with the EMAX and
that's what I use.
There are so many, okay, and
there are lots of philosophical or
religious arguments about
which is best and all that.
They're all the same, just choose
a favorite one and you stick with it.
So right now I just mentioned Nano,
Nano's a common one.
Nano, it looks something like this.
It's pretty plain.
You're going to have to install this,
though,
it doesn't come by default with
the Raspbian image anymore.
So you install it by typing
sudo apt-get install nano,
type that and it'll install Nano for you.
Now then to start Nano,
you just go into a terminal window and
type nano, and it will start it.
And you will get something that looks
like what you see on the screen.
And you can just type your text, save it.
There are a bunch of control sequences.
Basic functions are via control sequences.
So you can quit, and save, and all that
stuff through various control sequences.
But just learn how to use one of these
like Nano, something like that, and
just stick with that forever and
you never really have to change.